So far we have then a basic router
working, so I can go here and there.
We still miss one part,
because, if you remember,
we will have three possible routes,
the other one, it's details.
But for details we will have
a URLs that will look like this,
like details and the ID of the product.
And yeah,
case doesn't look like a good idea here.
And I know what you're thinking,
or some of you are thinking,
we can use regular expressions, we can.
But I wanna start with something simpler,
much simpler than that.
Because I'm not sure if all of you
are within regular expressions.
So maybe we can start
with just a default here.
And check with very basic JavaScript
if the route starts with.
And we can say,
I think i will use product, not details,
but anyway, it will work,
product- something.
And in this case,
we are going to create another page
element that will be just details.
But we can't try this yet because we
don't have a link to product- something,
unless we actually go to the URL and
try it manually.
But anyway, I mentioned that there is an
ID there as well, so I should get that ID.
By the way, it can also be forward slash,
doesn't need to be dash,
it's up to you,
it can be forward slash as well.
So you pick the URL pattern you want,
and we need to get the ID.
So how can I get that parameter?
It's an ID, a param ID, how can we get it?
Well, string manipulation.
Again, without regular expressions.
So I can take a substring, And
I will start from the last
index of a forward slash,
or a hyphen,
whatever you use as a separator.
+1, because we don't wanna
take that character.
And then we need to pass that ID
somewhere somehow to the page element.
We are not doing this part yet,
we will in a couple of minutes,
but this is a product ID.
So I mean, you might be thinking, well,
why don't you change
the ID of the element?
I could, but it's kind of weird
that on HTML you will have an ID.
That is the ID of the database,
of the data source.
So instead of doing this,
we should understand that DOM elements,
they have a collection, an object,
that we can set both from HTML and
JavaScript, for
custom properties and custom data.
I'm not sure if you have ever
used that before on HTML.
We are talking about the data attributes,
in JavaScript known as dataset.
Basically every element has a dataset
option, and we can set the ID.
This is not going to be
parsed by the browser,
it's just for custom libraries.
From an HTML point of view, it's like
setting here a data-id, that's the idea.
And if you're coming from some libraries,
probably you are used to that.
Because it's being used on some
libraries for setting up formatting and
other stuff, for templating,
okay, for templates.
So something like that.
But okay, it works, I mean,
I can jump between my two pages.
But what happens if I try the Back button?
If I try the Back button,
the URL changes, but
not the contents, why is that?
And I can go forward, backward,
forward, and you can see, yeah,
the URL changes based on my history,
but not the content.
That's because we are not listening for
the popstate event yet, makes sense?
So we are changing, we are pushing new
elements, but we're not listening for
the URL.
To do that, we will stay in Router.js,
but within init,
we're going to add an event handler for
URL changes.
And that's window.addEventListener for
popstate.
This is going to be fired
every time the URL is changing
based on a user interaction
with the history.
And in this case, I can go to a URL.
The problem is, where is the route?
Some of you may think, well, look at
the host that we have, at the localhost.
Let's do that again.
Let's look at the history path name,
that's one option.
But I'm not sure if you remember that
when we were pushing a new state,
we had this object with a route,
remember this object?
We can read that object here,
that's a place.
The event that we received here
has the state object that we
pushed earlier with all the properties,
make sense?
So I can read that route object as well.
And this is important,
remember that we set up the second
argument with true as default?
If the user is going back,
I don't want to add another history entry,
it doesn't make any sense.
So that's why we are going to use that
false value for that particular argument.
This is the place where we use it.
We just wanna go back, we don't
wanna add more entries in history.
So with this in place,
Now I can go forward and
going backward, and then, let me refresh.
And you can see that it's
also changing the content.
Yeah, I know the content
is still not what we want.
But hey, we have a router
system working with vanilla JS.
I think that from all the fears that
we get from developers on vanilla JS,
routing is one of the biggest fears.
But actually it's not a big deal
to implement your own router,
it's really not complicated.
It's not one of the most
complicated things of vanilla JS.
It was eight years ago, ten years ago,
because that API was not available,
or it was available only on some browsers.
And there were some hacks that you had to
do with the hash and blah, blah, blah.
Well, that's not the case anymore.
This is actually working on Firefox,
Safari,
Chrome in the past 10-15 versions,
so it's actually safe to use.
It's not gonna work on
Internet Explorer 9, no, but yeah,
typically no web app will work,
even YouTube is not working there.
Just, this is completely off topic, but
BlackBerry sent me a couple of tablets
like 10 years ago, 12 years ago.
And I have like five of those tablets,
they have BlackBerry 10 as the OS.
They have a browser,
it's a WebKit browser, HTML5 powered.
But you can't even use YouTube these days,
so it's completely useless.
So anyway, so we don't care about that
BlackBerry tablet, for web apps, at least.
Maybe if it's Wikipedia,
text-based, it's fine, but yeah,
we don't have users on
those devices anymore.
And even if you have a React app, unless
you're adding a lot of polyfills and
other libraries, it's not
compatible with IE anymore as well.
Okay, so with that,
I think that we have the router ready.
As ideas for adding more abstractions,
maybe we can make a router reusable
by receiving a collection of routes.
We can use regular expressions,
but it's not complicated,
that's just programming, okay?
It's not really about the DOM API.